---
title: "Setting different Yarn versions in Ubuntu / Linux"
date: 2022-02-10T14:51:16+05:30
draft: false
---

This should be a one liner as per the [Yarn Docs][1].

It doesnot work always like that.

## The problem

This happens if you have installed the latest version of [Yarn][2]. Then and only then one can change `Yarn` versions. After installing the latest version of `Yarn`, we can use the old version by setting Yarn to older version.


> yarn set version classic


The `classic` version is `1.x` version.

At this point we are good for our projects which use `Yarn` version 1.x.

When we need to work on something which uses latest version of Yarn, then it should be just setting the Yarn version to latest.

> yarn set version latest

Now `Yarn` will not do the update. However, it shows the message as `Why` it will not do that.


> Warning: Your current Yarn binary is currently Yarn 1.22.15; to avoid potential breaking changes, 'set version latest' won't receive upgrades past the 1.22.x branch.
To upgrade to the latest versions, run yarn set version stable instead. Sorry for the inconvenience.

## The solution

It is actually said in the `Warning`.

> yarn set version stable

Once this is done, Yarn can do `latest`. From this point onwards the projects depending on latest version of Yarn will work.

But then sometimes `yarn set version stable` also will not update the Yarn from `classic`! This is not a big thing, but may come as a surprise! To fix this, we need to remove some files which are present at `~/` , that is at the UserHome folder. The files are

 - package.json
 - yarn-error.log
 - .yarnrc
 - .yarnrc.yml

Some files might be present, some might not be present. Just remove all the files which are available from this list. And then run the `yarn set version` command. 

This does the trick.













[1]: https://yarnpkg.com/cli/set/version
[2]: https://yarnpkg.com/getting-started/install

