---
title: "Instructions Work"
date: 2023-01-15T01:31:09+05:30
draft: false
---

What is the big deal?! It should work.

Yep, it is true.

> The deal is, who takes the instructions seriously.

I am talking in general here. Once you accept something as valuable, a book or a guide, then taking it as instructed makes a whole difference. Problem arises when one becomes a little casual about the instructions of value. Then it does not matter, what are you doing, there will not be desired result. 

Let me talk specifically here. I had taken up some vary basic `Yogic Practices` for sometime now. Initially I thought, well let me do and see. In the beginning I was doing it with full enthusiasm. Then came a time when I was like, "Nothing is happenning!". But anyway I continued. And now, I can see the results as instructions were said. But most importantly, do it as instructed. I had been advised by some like
 
 - It is ok, if it is done this way
 - It is not comfortable for me, so I am doing it that way
 - It is fine to get a little bit of this and a little bit of that

These are the kinds of things, why I never talk about these things even to the people who has learned the Practices with me. It is better if they think I am not doing it, rather than taking their validation upon me. 

Could not go on specifics here about the instructions and what is going on with me. The important thing is `The Instructions` as it is. If you do it, the results are right there. It takes sometime to get used to the Practices and keeping it on. Then comes the time, when words are not enough to explain the result.

Hope I continue.
