---
title: "Being there."
date: 2023-01-15T12:43:58+05:30
draft: false
---

Namaskaram.

It happened last week, [Inner Engineering Completion][iec] in person program, near me. Personally, it was a long wait to be a part of this event in person. Never thought, it would be such a surprise to me! Overall it was as usual, pleasant and smooth with high energy flowing all-around. I `bow down to all the volunteers`, who brought it here.

> Being a Volunteer in the event has a different meaning altogether.

This can never be explained in words. One has to be there, to experience it. I was doing it for sometime now. But I was never in this kind of a situation before. There were more first time volunteers than the experienced ones. The teacher put me in a place where there will be an attention from other volunteers! 

First I thought, no worries people will forget and I can safely ignore their attention. But the teacher had made sure people did not forget to come to me! Every meeting he ensured people know me! Then came the time, when there were four-five first time volunteers standing right on my face! I did not know what to do! All of them had brought their full energy, enthusiasm and solutions to the situations around. And all of them want their answers now. Whoa!?! What a situation! I did not know what to do, but probably I did something and things went on. This kind of situation happened not just once, it was a continuous happenning for me that day. I was dearly missing all the expeienced volunteers that day and these situations made me realise, what they had done to me.

The foundation they built of me is surprising to realise. I used to think they could have managed the situation in a better way, they could have dealt with me in a better way. Now, when I was in the same situation, I realised they had done the best, it could have been. I only have failed in my own standards! `I bow down to all the mentors (the experienced ones)`, the Annas and the Akkas, who made me who I am today. Each of them with loving intentions, pain in their heart, demanded something from me, I thought it was not necessary. Never knew they were busy making a miracle out of me. I know, who I was before this and who I am now. There is a change and these people had earned a special place. Not sure if I can carry what they had put on me, but definitely I am enjoying now, the fruit of their hard work.

Well this was just the beginning. The way the first timers (the first time volunteers) accepted me, blew me away! How!?! I never was this receiving and they simply took it. `I bow down to all the first timers`, for the way they are. 

It was an experience to celebrate life. Just, being there makes a huge difference. Thanking all who made it possible.

Pranam.





[iec]: https://innerengineering.sadhguru.org/completion

