---
title: "Do it and see"
date: 2023-01-19T15:10:01+05:30
draft: false
---

This is about implementing an idea and seeing it in the market.

> Jump into it. Give it all that you have and see.

There is a huge difference between just sitting in the side and validating something or putting the effort to actully make it. As I see it, failed in terms of market and money is fine. But that gives immense idea about the reality of the world. If you know to code, making a software product is easy. Very easy. Do it and see.

> If at all you want to make a product, make it for yourself.

That way, the requirements are correct. And then use it for sometime. You know what I am saying. If you like it and use it regularly, then it has value. Go to market with it. Even if you use a product does not mean market needs it. This is just the beginning.

My experience of building a product, a free and open-source product and a pure commercial product even if failed taught me huge lessons. These things do not go waste.

> Do not try to make a Start-Up. Try to make a Stay-Up.

Making a product to sell to someone else is not exciting. If just making money is the concern, go find a job. Startups come and sell and go and die. How many successful startups are still have a life?! One can just count in one hand. Beyond that it is all sold and then died. Making a small studio to just do some UI designs and keeping it alive takes something else other than hype. Getting some funding is as easy as saying some dream stories about life in Pluto. I can tell this from my experience. 

There are just too many things to be learned by trying to make a shop of your own, Tech-Shop, Design-Shop, Services-Shop or any kind. But you can not have a job and expeience all these. 

I must say, it is worth the try. At least twice. 






