---
title: "Second Product is online."
date: 2023-07-09T11:57:00+05:30
draft: false
---

I was holding myself from saying anything about it for last two and half years. The incredible journey to the release of the first product and now the second product is online to the global audience.

> The team is beautiful. Fast. To the point. Remote.

It is an honor to work with the team. While serving the world and releasing updates, it never felt anyone is down. Energy is high and flowing. The high efficient machine. 

I am on the frontend doing ReactJS and Web development. There are mobile apps, UI designs, backend, database and DevOps and Ops as usual in any project.


### An OTT platform

This one is a little big. A lot of research, design, development, content development, internationalisation, payment system and integration, release to the market and staying in the market, it is a beauty.

We had revamped the whole frontend couple of times. It has an active community of viewers. Being a paid product, the growth seems ok to us as a team. Now is the time to take it forward from `being OK` to something like `engaging` perhaps. It is satisfying to see so many people re-subscribe after their subscription ends! We must have done something good. It is available on IOS, Android and desktop Web. Though we have a Mobile Web App for the same, it is for viewing the catalogue and reading about them.

Apart from technology, I myself was blown away by the design and editing of the content.

### A Shorts-Story like UI

Like the famous Youtube-Shorts or Instagram-Stories, we have a new product which kind of similar in nature. Short videos, audios and small text content. It is available on IOS, Android and Web, both MobileWeb and DesktopWeb. Comparing to the other one, this seems smaller. The audience is world wide and using it.

> The satisfaction of seeing the products in active use.

Both are ReactJS apps. The best part is we have still managed it with very minimal dependencies in terms of external libraries. The first one uses TailwindCSS, but the second one is not even using any CSS Framework! It is nice to see that a lot could be done without complicating the tech-Stack and using the native browser features.