---
title: "Omarchy Linux"
date: 2025-09-26T18:37:46+05:30
draft: false
---

I generally prefer to stay on the stable versions of Linux and keep on doing the work on the same system. Tried [Ubuntu][ubuntu] and got used to it. Never bothered to install a second distro for work. The configurations to [Ubuntu][ubuntu] also as per my work requirements. This whole disro-hop thing is never my thing. Though on side, I use to see what is happening in that space. Configuring or ricing as it is said now, is also seems too much for me. 

> I just want a system which can be productive and that is all.

On [Ubuntu][ubuntu] also, I was using the latest version in the beginning and then shifted to LTS versions. Some code editors like Sublime Text is more than enough for me. Everything else generally happens in browser in my case. I am still trying to be comfortable with [NeoVIM][nvim]. That also I configured just as much I need, that means not much. Just a File Tree and that is all.

On Windows, I have configured Linux in [WSL][wsl]. That works fine to debug code on both sides of things.

On Mac, when I used to have one, the same kind of configuration I had. The bare minimal to get the things done.

> All this as a precaution and from experience. I had bad experiences on system upgrades, found it is better to keep it to bare minimal configurations.

### Omarchy!

I am pleasantly surprised to see, suddenly people are getting interested in Linux. Thanks to [David][dhh](dhh). He created a thing called [Omarchy][omarchy]. Taken the [Arch Linux][arch] and customised it for developers. This is not the first time he has done it, there is another one called [Omakub][omakub], which is based on [Ubuntu][ubuntu]. 

> I was planning to go [Omakub][omakub] way!

As I am already running on [Ubuntu][ubuntu], the simplest path is [Omakub][omakub]. At least that is what I thought! Once get a comfortable time, I was thinking of trying out [Omakub][omakub], all the things I use are preconfigured there! But was not getting time to do it. To shift my whole work there in a new setup, I was a little hesitant too.

Then [Omarchy][omarchy] happened. And people were busy telling their experiences about it. I went through the introduction video of it. Though, I had my fears to jump into a complete new Linux Distribution([Arch][arch]), the sharings were promising. There was a ten year old laptop with me. It was just sitting there as if waiting for this day. While the sharings of internet is about the new machines, I was thinking, let me try it in this one. If it works then fine else will go back to my [Ubuntu][ubuntu]. All this time, I was thinking of getting an off-line installer of [Omarchy][omarchy]. In the beginning it was only online. Fortunately that happened, they released an ISO! Now I had no excuse for me. Downloaded the ISO and boot into it.

> It installed in just less than ten minutes and with one click only!

Now it was asking for rebooting. At this point, I was already impressed with the installation process! It was smooth. In comparison, even Windows installation seems little technical.

Once I rebooted, that old system seemed faster to me! I was thinking, what just happened?! How! And the OS started. Clean and beautiful. Now is the time to take it to work. Opened up my regular things to test. Chromium and [Newo VIM][nvim] are the first ones to test a browser and text editor. Installed [Brave][brave] and [Sublime Text][sublime]. Run some git commands and opened the Files explorer. All of these worked smooth. My first experience with a tiling window manger, [Hyperland][hland], and I am impressed with it.
 
> Productive from the beginning. Thinking of switching to it as my default work system.

In the beginning, it could not connect to wifi internet. I have to configure the wifi settings. The whole configuration of that happened in a TUI(Text User Interface) and it was a beautiful experience too! Once that is done, updating the system packages and installing new applications are straight enough.

This whole thing shows the craftsmanship, the eye for details in design both visually and functionally. What a beauty this is!










[omarchy]: https://omarchy.org/
[arch]: https://archlinux.org/
[ubuntu]: https://ubuntu.com/
[wsl]: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install
[nvim]: https://neovim.io/
[sublime]: https://www.sublimetext.com/
[dhh]: https://dhh.dk/
[omakub]: https://omakub.org/
[brave]: https://brave.com/
[hland]: https://hypr.land/







